So that was a lot of talking about mongodb and so on,
time to finally set up our mongo database and then of course connect it to our angular node express
application.
How do we do that?
Well we need a mongo database for that and a good place to start is mongodb.com.
Now you've got two options when it comes to setting up the database,
you can download mongodb onto your machine and set it up there, on mongodb you can click
that download button which you should find there,
that should take you to the download center and there, you can choose the community server where you
can choose your operating system, the latest stable release, download that file and then on the following
page, you actually don't need to sign up.
You can skip this or the download will start automatically to be precise and thereafter, you can dive
into the documentation like the quickstart guide where you will be instructed on how to install this.
Now for this course, I'll use a different solution, a cloud solution.
There is a free sandbox available, doesn't cost you anything and totally is enough for the purposes of
this course and for real apps of course you will probably need a paid solution but that's also true if you
host the server on your own
and that free sandbox will be a cloud hosted mongo database which you can conveniently use and which
you can then use from your node express app you're building on your machine and you'll be deploying
on a real server later.
So after you click on free sandbox, you can click on get started for free to be scrolled down,
then you can create an account here where you won't need a credit card as you can see
and once you did all that, you can sign in, a step to which I will fast forward because I already have
an account.
Now once you are signed in, you should be in a new project or at least have the option to click build
a new cluster,
if you have to create a new project, first simply give it any name of your choice,
the other setting should be OK.
So then you can build and you cluster and there choose AWS,
so basically always where you see that free tier available thing, use North Virginia,
so in this case here go down and then for cluster tier, you want to go with the cheapest shared cluster
where it also says free next to it. So with that, you can continue, choose the default settings down there,
basically you will always have the cheapest settings
obviously since it should be for free, you can leave the cluster name as it is and then click create
cluster.
It will check that you're not a robot
and once you're done, this will configure a so-called mongodb cluster for you which is a server that
hosts some mongo database, some mongodb database
and it's a cluster because it's actually a combination of multiple servers or it can be such a combination
to be precise so that your database is horizontally scaled if it needs to be,
however not for our cheap free tier option here.
Now as it correctly prompts us, we can already have a look at the security settings
now with that cluster getting initialized and we want to add a mongodb user here.
So under security mongodb users, click add a new user and there you basically want to create an atlas
admin or anyone who has read and write access to any database,
so we want to give the user a relatively big access rights. You can then enter a username here, like
Max and then auto-generate a secure password which you should copy and store safely
and I will store it in my code for now, just copy it in here,
of course that's not the place where we will store it in the end,
click add user and with that user added, that will be the user which is able to access our database.
Now we also want to add an IP whitelist and add an IP address here and there, you can simply choose
your current IP address,
just keep in mind throughout this course if you work on that project over a couple of days, your IP address
might change,
so you probably want to update it here in case you're suddenly seeing that you can't access your database
anymore.
You could of course also allow access from anywhere
but I want to use my local address. Now important,
once you deploy your application, this should of course be the IP address of the server you deployed
your app to because in the end, it will be your nodejs server which is accessing the database,
it just happens to run on our machine.
So let's click confirm here for the security whitelist
and now with that, we got that all set up.
Now this will take a while and here our cluster will take a while and whilst this is taking a while, we
can go back to our project and already install a package that helps us connect to that backend database.
Now we'll have a look at this in the next lecture.